[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to House
of Well-Being.
You're listening to the Anger
Management Mind Talk audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
And before it
does, I'd just like
to remind you that the
following audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to help you reach
deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that
wherever you are listening
to this audio, you are in a
safe and comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to it if
you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you.
And you'll easily
come out of hypnosis.
But right now there's
nothing at all
you need to do, apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and let go.
And enjoy those peaceful
feelings and all the benefits
that come with it.
I'd like you now to take
a long, slow breath.
And let it out nice and slowly.
And, again, when you're ready,
another long deep breath
filling your upper
and lower lungs.
And, again, let it
out when you're ready.
And now you can
allow your breathing
to return to normal,
gentle breaths
in and out at your
body's own natural pace.
And already you can start to
feel your body relaxing now.
And as you reach that
beautifully relaxed state,
I'd like you to imagine
yourself standing
on the edge of a wonderful
forest at the top of a path.
And this path very
gradually slopes down
through the center of the
forest of peace and tranquility.
And I'd like you to imagine
now just what it would
feel like to begin to
walk slowly down the path,
each step allowing you to
relax more and more as you
move peacefully into
this beautiful forest.
Perhaps there are leaves and
twigs crackling underfoot.
Maybe there's a breeze.
And if so, would it be cool
or perhaps slightly warm
as you continue walking
safely and contentedly
into this wonderful
woodland paradise?
As you notice that your
breathing has already slowed,
you can continue to
notice your surroundings.
You look around you.
Take note of what you see, what
you hear, and of what you feel.
Take note of whatever it is that
you can feel as you relax now
and you drift through this
tranquil forest of your mind.
Every moment becoming
more and more
relaxed, wonderful, content
safe feeling in the air.
And with each breath you
inhale, you feel good.
And you relax with
every exhalation now.
And as you continue
down the path
into the deep relaxation
of the forest,
you begin to approach a bridge.
And under that bridge
is a peaceful meandering
stream or river.
And you find yourself at
the bridge now completely
comfortable and relaxed.
You watch as the water
peacefully flowing down deeply
into the forest.
And just as the water
flows down into the forest,
you drift deeper down into that
wonderful state of relaxation
with every breath you take.
And as you continue to
walk now into the forest,
perhaps the path remains
alongside the water gently
drifting as you walk
through this wonderful place
deeper and deeper into the
beautiful trance of relaxation
with every step now.
And just ahead of you,
you see a beautiful chair.
And you gently take a
sit down in the chair.
And as you do, you notice that
you're sinking into the chair
with every breath you take.
And you allow that to happen.
You allow yourself to
drift five times deeper
into that wonderful
state of relaxation.
And as I count down
from 10, you can
allow yourself to
relax even more
deeply as you sink into that
beautiful comfortable chair.
So 10, relaxing
your body now as you
sink into the chair;
9, going deeper still,
that wonderful
comfortable feeling as you
relax more and more with every
breath; 8, releasing now;
7, further and further down
now; 6, relaxing more and more.
5, so relaxed now, noticing
your entire body releasing; 4,
breathing in
comfortably, relaxing
now; 3, almost there
now; 2, every part
of your body heavy and
comfortable now; and, 1,
releasing all
tension in your body,
deeply and heavily relaxed
now, going deeper and deeper
with each breath you take.
And as you lie here in
your state of relaxation,
you're now ready to tackle
your feelings of anger.
You know the anger is a
very powerful emotion that
can stem from feelings of
frustration, hurt, annoyance,
or disappointment.
And although feelings
of anger can be normal,
suppressed anger or anger that's
not appropriately expressed
can also disrupt relationships,
affect thinking and behavior
patterns, and create a variety
of physical health issues,
such as high blood pressure,
heart problems, headaches,
digestive problems.
The mental effect is
also just as damaging.
And it's also extremely
damaging to those around you.
And you know that
you need help here.
You're about to learn some
powerful techniques to help
you gain control
of your emotions
and to start rewiring those
negative thinking patterns now.
You know that in order
to manage your anger
and to manage the physical
reaction you have,
the first thing you need to do
is to control your breathing.
So you stop, focus
on your breath,
inhale quickly to
the count of 7,
and slowly exhale to the
count of 11 in your mind.
So every time you feel
those emotions creeping in,
that anger creeping in,
inhaling to the count of 7,
exhaling to the count of 11.
It's during the exhalation that
your parasympathetic nervous
system, your relaxation
response, is triggered.
Breath in for 7 and out for 11.
And it may take you
around 60 seconds
to calm down using
that breathing.
Once you're calm again, you'll
notice that you can also
think much more clearly.
You can focus on possible
consequences for others
and yourself if you were to
allow those feelings of anger
to emerge.
So I'd like you now
to take yourself
back to a time when
you've been angry.
Go back to a time
when you can just
feel that emotion creeping up on
you when you were really angry.
Feel yourself back in that
situation where you overreacted
in an impulsive way.
Think about what was said
to you or what you said.
Hear the tone of
voice that was used.
Or notice that look that
annoyed you so much.
And perhaps you thought the
situation was just unfair
or you felt victimized
in some way.
Perhaps you were angry on behalf
of someone or something else.
And just for a
moment, I want you
to be there again
in that situation
and really feel those feelings
of anger all inside of you.
But this time, I'd like
you to see yourself.
You're watching yourself.
Maybe you're outside a
window and you're looking in
at yourself feeling angry.
So you're watching yourself.
Notice certain
aspects of that time
you've never noticed before.
Perhaps you're observing
your facial expressions.
Or you're observing
other people.
You're undergoing detached
observation right now,
meaning you're using your
thinking brain instead
of your emotional brain.
Notice the difference between
observing the occasion instead
of being in the occasional.
Go back again to the third
person observer position.
And, again, watch
that out-of-date time.
But this time,
imagine how it could
have been had the anger
not got the better of you.
Let's create an
alternative blueprint
in your mind of how you could
have handled that situation.
See yourself now dealing with
the situation very differently.
Perhaps your calm and relaxed.
You're taking that
deep breath in for 7
and a long, slow
exhalation out for 11.
You are calm again.
You have control
over your emotions.
You know you can handle
situations differently.
You're controlling your anger.
You're controlling
your emotions.
And you react in a calm manner.
You're now rewiring
your thinking patterns.
Becoming angry is no longer
your immediate response.
You see yourself third
person, watching yourself.
But your response is
completely different.
You have your
breathing technique.
And you are calm and collected.
You no longer allow that
anger to spoil things for you.
You're in control.
And you're able to stand
up to that old anger.
That anger does not
define you anymore.
Again, seeing yourself,
go back in time.
See yourself when
you were angry.
Go back to that time when you
were furious at a situation
and you let that anger
get the better of you.
But you see yourself
observing yourself.
Observe your face.
Observe other people.
Practice your breathing.
In for 7 and a long, slow
exhalation out for 11.
And think about how you could
change those circumstances,
reacting in a calm
manner, taking
control of your emotions.
And if you do start to feel
anger creeping up on you, even
though you're rewiring
those thinking patterns now,
I'd like you to think about
what you're not getting.
What do you need?
Are you not being heard?
Are you not getting
enough attention?
Were you being spoken over?
What need is it that isn't
being satisfied within you?
For most people, anger rises
when that need isn't being met.
So have a think now
about what need it is.
What could be addressed
that could help you?
If you can pinpoint
the need, then you
can find a way to
work out that need
without resorting to anger.
And, of course, that anger
may fully be justified.
But by clearly identifying
which need is not being met,
we can at least give
ourselves space and also
think about what might be the
best way to meet that need
or even whether it's valid
to meet that need right now.
We can take the steering wheel
of emotional responsiveness
a little bit further.
It may be that you may need to
learn to be assertive rather
than just threatening and also
to start to develop boundaries
with yourself by setting
limits on your own behavior
or that old anger.
You recognize that
by getting angry,
by shouting, that
doesn't mean that you're
going to be heard any
more than if you were
to simply be assertive and
to express yourself clearly
and firmly.
You appreciate that,
in fact, people
were expecting much more if
you don't lose your temper.
Your thinking is no
longer absolutist.
You no longer think in terms
of completely, utterly, always,
and absolutely.
Your black and white
thinking is not healthy.
And you realize
that now that you're
no longer in the strong
emotional state of mind
or fight or flight
approach and you're
able to view situations in
a much more balanced state
of mind.
You're much more able to be
able to see the bigger picture
or, simply put, other
pictures other than your own.
And this huge step
means that you're
able to dissipate anger,
as you no longer rely
on limited and
rigid perceptions.
You have your breathing
technique to calm you now.
And in your mind,
you take a step back
and see the bigger picture.
You're no longer absolutist.
You have control
over your emotions.
You're going to find
that you're beginning
to feel a much calmer and
more relaxed person inside.
You feel calmer in every way,
more peaceful, more easygoing,
more relaxed, and happier
because those good feelings
are so much better than the
old destructive negative ones.
And your life becomes much
richer, more meaningful,
much happier in every way.
And every day you feel better,
happier, and more relaxed
and much calmer.
You begin to feel much
more differently inside.
And other people notice
a difference in you too
And you feel that difference.
You feel happier and
calmer, healthier,
and much more relaxed
and confident.
You're proud of
yourself for having
learned to control your anger
and other people apart of you
too.
And the more you listen
to this mind talk,
the more you're rewiring
those thinking patterns
and your instinctive
response to situations.
In a moment, I'm going
to count from 1 to 5.
And at the count of
5, you'll be wide
awake with beautiful
feelings flowing
through your body,
calm, peaceful thoughts
flowing through your mind.
And these hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind.
And they'll become
more and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from 1 to 5
to awaken you.
And at the count of 5, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
with you all the
wonderful new feelings.
Coming back now with
1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.